I was an military establishment of the United States, Hammers, Pennymore, while I was gone,
and that was my advice to him when he came to see me.
I left for New York to go to Europe and read in the morning paper the day that I was to
go to Europe that he had asked to appear.
After he was the one who wanted me to be a security guard, that is all I meant by saying,
wanted me to be with him at the hearings or with any other army witnesses.
And that is all I meant when I said in effect, make up your mind and don't make me look silly.
Now with respect to this question about me being subpoenaed and about Senator McCarthy's
threatening to take it to the Senate floor.
I must assured Mr. Chairman and the people within the sound of my voice that I will be
only to glad to discuss this matter with Senator McCarthy on the Senate floor.
I can remember when he was invited to discuss charges with respect to him.
I don't think he even accepted the invitation.
I am certain he accepted no supreme.
However, I shall be very glad to discuss it on the Senate floor, especially as I always
tell the truth.
I know.
What about him?
I'm going to take you by the way.
I know.
The Senate was very nervous whether he was willing to take the oath or whether he will not
take the oath unless the Senate forces him to.
I will be very glad to take the oath.
Something he has never done in Senator McCarthy with respect to charges about you.
If the Senate decides that I should, we are talking about a man and a man that has to
do with respect to regulations.
Now you take it to the floor anytime you want and I will meet you there with pleasure.
Now, continue with Chairman.
This time he is.
I wrote a letter on February 20th.
I was very patient.
The point of order was when he got off some of his difficult alignments.
The Senate and everybody here and there.
And by the way, if you have an agreement, you have a point of order.
You take the plan right.
And the Senate was very nervous to make some plans.
So now I will know what to do tonight.
I would like to get the Senate and the Missouri to answer the simple question.
Will he be willing to do what the Republican Senate has done when I have done?
Then we take the oath and give us his evidence or doesn't take the position you will refuse.
Unless we go through the long, glorious procedures of forcing him to do so on the son of Ford.
Well, Senator, I am going a lot farther with the charges that you have made against me.
Then you went with the charges that were made against you.
As I understand it, you wouldn't even reply to an invitation to discuss the matter.
Now I will be delighted to discuss the matter.
As to whether I take an old funder or a subpoena from this committee,
I don't know why these Republican senators took the oath they got up voluntarily and did it.
There have been some Ford-a-3 situations here, but I believe that they probably did it in good faith.
Without any collusion with you based on what you are now saying.
I am confident of that.
But I want to point out to you that this is a serious matter.
And if you would like to take it to the Senate floor, I would like to take it to the Senate floor.
I would be glad to testify under oath because I always tell the truth.
But it seems to me very peculiar that you want me now to be under oath when your career has proved that you yourself don't want to get under oath when you, when charges come up, no charges have been made against me.
Kennedy's hearings, let's get these hearings over.
The hearings have two fundamental situations.
Was improper as ruined used by you and your staff in order to get things from private charge and did the Army blackmail you?
Now when we get through, when we get through with that, then let's go to your and my problems with respect to this subpoena.
There are continuous challenges.
Under time, if you'd have the floor, Sarah McCarty has demanded that I withdraw from this subcommittee because I had several conversations with the secretary of the Army.
Now all those conversations are on the record.
And I don't propose the require for this committee.
Secretary Stevens in general rich way, she for staff of the Army came to see me.
Secretary Stevens protested the abuse the Army had received from Sarah McCarty as chairman of this subcommittee.
Secretary Stevens said the morale of the United States Army was being seriously impaired by the actions of Senator McCarty.
Later I met with Secretary Stevens and Senator McCall and Thomas and then he came to my office and secretary Stevens was bitter about the treatment given General's liquor.
I understand that Secretary Stevens also visited other members of the committee and told them the same thing and also so advised Senator McCarty.
Mr. Chairman, I was shocked and profoundly aroused by these accusations.
Mr. Chairman, now have you sent me the chair?
I had part to meet a read when you're interrogating Senator McCarty.
I'll have to go after him.
I understand the secretary Stevens also visited other members of the committee and told them the same thing and also advised Senator McCarty.
Mr. Chairman, I was shocked and profoundly aroused by these accusations.
And also at about the same time Senator McCarty was issuing public statements charging that high officials in the Pentagon were cuddling communists.
These statements are true Mr. Chairman, they are overwhelming importance to the security of our country.
Now obviously it would have been unthinkable for me or for any other member of the United States Senate to disregard this situation.
Now I'm the member of the Senate Armed Services Committee as well as this committee.
I have served as Secretary of the Air Force.
I have no interest in life that surpasses my great concern for the vitality of our long forces.
I felt the sentiment of the charges that our defense officials were cuddling communists.
Along with Secretary Stevens' countercharges, precipitated a great and fundamental danger to the United States.
The charges and countercharges played directly into the hands of the communists and they played directly into the hands of the communists today.
The communists aim in this country is to undermine the confidence that people have in their leaders and their government.
They have to achieve that certainly before the overthrow of this government by force and violence is undertaken.
They would like nothing better than to degrade the United States Army and the United States Navy and the United States Air Force and the United States Marine Corps and the United States Senate and our entire government, so as to destroy the morale of all.
In these circumstances, I, of course, assured the Secretary of the Army.
I would do everything in my power to see to it there was a full and fair consideration of the matter by the full membership of the subcommittee.
And, promptly after my meeting with Secretary Stevens and General Ridgeway, I wrote to them a copy and told them I had talked with Secretary Stevens.
There was no secret about that. I have the letter here and I'll read it right at this point.
Dear Mr. Chairman, February 20th, the day before I went to Europe, actually today I did go to New York to sail.
Dear Mr. Chairman, take only of your staff, call this morning to say you were available to post-poning this Wicker hearing until March 10th or thereafter.
Thank you very much.
Secretary Stevens also told me this morning. You said you were going to subpoena him for next Tuesday, February 23rd.
Because of my great interest in this entire matter, I would deeply appreciate your also postponing any hearing with respect to Secretary Stevens and the Army until my return.
And, silly, fewer assignments. I sent a copy of that to Senator McClillan, Humphrey Jackson, Kennedy and Lenin, the members of the full committee on the Democratic side of the aisle.
Property after my meeting with Secretary Stevens in general Ridgeway, I wrote Senator McClillan and I talked with Secretary Stevens as presented.
I would appreciate Senator McClillan post-poning any hearing with respect to Secretary Stevens or the Army until I return from a brief trip to Europe on official business with Senator Bridges.
I'd like to say at that point, it was my understanding. On that day, that was the reason that I called the next day to Secretary Stevens not only didn't want to appear before the committee that he didn't want to go to any luncheon, that he wanted to wait until I got back and the matter could then proceed in orderly fashion.
When Senator McClillan pretends to be surprised therefore, at this late date, to learn that I had talked with Secretary Stevens, he is not stating the facts.
He knew about our conversations from the very beginning, and in one of the monitored calls, Senator McClillan was told by Secretary Stevens that he Stevens has visited me as well as other members of the committee.
My other conversations with Secretary Stevens on February 20th and 21st had to do entirely with the same subject.
Namely, my desire that these great charges and countercharges should be heard by the full subcommittees and not by just one of the members involved, Senator McCarthy.
These phone conversations had nothing to do with G. David Shine over the subject matter of these proceedings.
I first mentioned Mr. Shine in the conversation of March 8th when I unsuccessfully attempted to get a copy of the report of the press report, of the report that the press report said the Army had drawn up.
All my calls were planned to the time that anyone ever remotely conceived that these hearings would be held.
My conversation had to do solely with my desire to make sure that the matters raised by Secretary Stevens and Senator McCarthy were presented to the full subcommittee including myself.
And I am sure that any Senator, regardless of party, would feel duty bound to do the change.
This was no question of politics.
It was a question of the loyalty and integrity of our own forces.
Mr. Chairman, these hearings which now have gone on for some six long weeks completely demonstrate that I was right to be fundamentally disturbed about these charges and countercharges.
I was in Europe visiting with various officers of the United States Army and Air Force when press reports came through that following the now famous chicken luncheon, Senator McCarthy was reported to have said that the Secretary of the Army could not be considered.
The Secretary of the Army could not have given in more time if he had drawn to him on his belly.
And I shall never forget Mr. Chairman, the constanation and the amazement of those fine officers of our great Army and our great Air Force when this news came through.
I need proceeding to the best of my knowledge. For the first time in our history, our people have been urged to entertain serious doubts as to the dedication and loyalty of our own forces from top to bottom.
We heard testimony that some of our military leaders are coddling communists and traitors.
We think that what that means is the security of the United States.
Not only that, we've also heard it said under oath that the power of a committee of the great United States Senate has been converted to obtain preferential treatment for a young man.
The notification has not stopped for the United States to bottom of the fence.
Millions of Americans have been told by Senator McCarthy that the Eisenhower administration, this Republican administration has added a year of treatment to our proud history.
The Attorney General of the United States, Mr. Brown L, has been compared with another Attorney General, Harry Doherty, who was indicted for one of the most scandalous steps in our history.
I want to say that I felt badly about some of the things that the Attorney General has said about my party.
But I'd be the first to say that he is a good American, that he is neither a communist nor a crook.
The CIA, which is our worldwide intelligence agency, and absolutely fundamental to our security, because all our preparations and all our budgets are made on the basis of what we think the enemy is doing, and the problem of the CIA is to find out what is the enemy doing.
The CIA, as I say, which is our worldwide intelligence agency, and fundamental to our security, has been charged by Senator McCarthy with being infiltrated with Communists.
And it's also been charged here, under oath, that there are Communists in our atomic bomb plants and hydrogen plants.
And it's been testified that there are 135 Communists in our defense plants.
But the witness who gave this testimony said there'd be no point in turning over their names to Secretary Wilson, our Secretary of Defense, because he wouldn't do anything about getting rid of them.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I want to say, in all honesty and sincerity, I've had my differences with Mr. Wilson about the size of the Air Force and the entire military establishment.
But I believe with all my heart that he's a good American, and that he would do something about it if he felt there were Communists, which, or who rather were against the security of the United States.
Closing Mr. Chairman on the Democrat, but first and foremost, I'm an American.
It's little comfort to me that these terrible charges are directed against a Republican administration, Republican officials, and our Republican commander-in-chief.
It would appear some of us want to end up in this country with just plain anarchy.
When the facts are in, Mr. Chairman, I'll make my own decision as to the issues in this proceeding.
My decision will be based on the facts and all of the facts, and not just those we know as of today.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, and then he will say that the difficulty of one of these kind of personal troubles and procedures is that they reach an old logical point of care and patience.
Chairman, Chair Will, here's Senator McCollum and then he will allocate, I will tell you, two minutes to send him a cardiac late, and two minutes following that to Senator Cymingen to be insists on two minutes after that time after the delivery.
Please send him a mic on on the right night first.
Mr. Tavan, one of the purpose for which I'll seek recognition is to clarify one assignment that has been made with the Democrats, those two are rules.
But the most if he Democrats object or any key numbers of the committee of the party call whether the Republicans are the Democrats object to the holding of a public hearing, it's in the matter that I have to go before the Phil Committee.
And they say that rule as it now stands is adopted by the four members, the public and members before the Democrats return to the committee.
But they put it in its proper perspective prior to the time that Senator McCollum became chairman of this subcommittee.
The rule under both Senator Ferguson and was chairman of this subcommittee when his first organized.
And also under Senator Wu, during the time he started this chairman of the subcommittee was that unless the subcommittee unanimously agreed to hold public hearing, they would not be held except that the matter was taken before the Phil Committee and before the Committee by a majority.
That the public hearing should be held so the rule of the bill now is much weaker in one sense than the rule of the bill.
Under both the first Republican administration over this committee and under the Democratic administration that succeeded it.
He ruled that now for the eight laws adopted along with at the time that the former ruled the nine, the Democrats didn't arrive.
Or any other members of the committee didn't arrive to participate in the selection of this charge of staff members.
These rules were adopted at the same time, because the Democrats will come back on the committee and on the AC and the Democrats will no more anxious to get it back on the committee than the Republicans were to have a comeback.
And so that was part of it.
Actually, as I told in a talk on my eyes on that one aspect of the rule that we were shaking to get the show that I think every member of the committee will agree with me in the statement that I just made.
Mr. Chairman, as all I wanted to clarify the rule.
Mr. Senator, can you be ready to Senator Reckon has a minute or two minutes after which his senator signing to us to be ready to recognize him for two minutes after which we will recess until kind of up to my month.
Mr. Chairman, I want to make a few minutes.
And I say as other amuse of your senator signing can worry about the Republicans from he has been compromising secretly to get the top political advice as the Democrats to try to get the Republicans to commit suicide.
It may seem very clever to senator signing this time that he gets quite clippered to mislead a fine knife, not two billion Republicans sector of the Army.
But at the end, that's going to be bad for his party in the country because the two party system cannot survive if you have a cheap political advisor of one falling in the shots for the other.
If our two party system does not survive or our public cannot survive and closing senator signing can made a long, rather you read a long speech to your voters.
I don't know you had a rather well said.
He still has an answer to the three questions.
Number one, will he slamming to the going to go under oath?
The same as the rest of us are going under oath. The same as I have done under oath and will do under oath.
Same as the Republicans are going under oath.
And tell us the truth of what party to play with this.
He shouldn't be afraid to do that unless he's been guilty of some wrongdoing.
If he's been guilty of wrongdoing, he or she should take the central royal privilege.
Number two, I'll ask the chair tomorrow morning and ask him to make some media piece of peanut, collect clippered.
And number three, I perhaps it's useless to direct my question to the senator from Missouri.
He has shown the way to judge this case.
He has apparently answered that he will not disqualify himself.
He wants to sit in the camp of votes.
But there are three questions with the American people.
Can I ask the Democrat party?
They owe a duty here if senator signing can doesn't realize his duty.
The Democrat party has a duty number one.
The lay put their presidential candidates under oath.
Number two, the lay force into disqualify himself.
Number three, we'll miss a proper command and self-define our oath.
It's clear you.
I'm inspired.
And if I'm anything you have to admit.
I'll make the chair with the first thing I want to say.
You said something about being afraid.
I want you to know from the bottom of my heart that I'm not afraid of anything about you,
anything you got to say, and anytime, any place, anywhere.
That's number one.
Now number two is, with respect to the oath, let's take it to the Senate floor.
Seven times when they wanted to put you under oath and you didn't want to go.
I always tell the truth, but you've got a senatorial problem here.
Let's take it to the Senate floor, you ask.
Now the next thing is, I happen to know that the Tuesday that we were getting together
with the senator from Wisconsin said and conniving with his four innocent secretary of the army.
So you say cobbled communist and you had some pretty rough things to say about it and about him.
But here's something that neither Mr. Clefford nor Secretary Steven's know I have much to do with.
The charge by the senator from Missouri or rather the senator from Wisconsin, the junior senator from Wisconsin,
that we've had another year of treason under President Eisenhower.
The charge at the CIA is infiltrated and infested with communists.
The charge is the department of defense and full of communists.
The charge is the department of justice.
At the attorney general of the department of justice, there's something funny about him and the charge that the hydrogen bomb plants and the atomic bomb plants are full of communists.
Well, where do we go from here as the American people?
That's all I have to say to the knife Mr. Chairman, except I believe in America.
Every fit of me believes in America.
You always have one or one said find a rotten apple in a vowel, but that doesn't mean that there's anything wrong with the United States of America.
And that's the great and basic difference between the junior senator from Wisconsin and the junior senator from Missouri.
Thank you.
At 9.30 tomorrow morning in room 357, we were having executive meeting of the committee.
We shall be in research until 10 o'clock.
Wow.
You have just heard called month and ounce of the next public session of the hearings.
We'll be at 10 a.m. tomorrow.